A Working Document for Shakespeare User essay

5/4/15 Abstract attempt
Notes:

Trying to move our engagement w/ time up a level of abstraction. What do you think?

Shakespeareans continue to reckon with time. We have, perhaps, moved equatorially from the old poles of “presentism” and “historicism,” working instead to trace the currents by which past and present circulate through and around each other. Yet approaches as different as object studies, queer theory, and material philology all have turned to think the tension between alterity and identification in temporal terms. Indeed, a relentless rhetorical habit of allegorizing temporality has made it the master trope of contemporary methodological debates.

This temporal turn, Weird Shakespeare Tricks argues, has constrained how we engage with non-academic and popular Shakespeares: they come to signify either a giddy affective anachronism that looks back from our own desires to those of the text or a grim reminder of the historical machinery (of class, of culture, of empire) that manufactured Shakespeare’s prominent place. Weird Shakespeare Tricks proposes to reframe such debates as ones of method rather than temporality. Expanding our sense of who uses Shakespeare and how his works can be used, this essay proposes a continuity of both methods and desires between academic and popular Shakespeares: we all analogize, animating Shakespeare with our present contradictions, even as we know the extent to which we are analyzing our own reflections. What is at stake, ultimately, is what these circuits enable. 

Recognizing these affective and intellectual commitments does not banish academics to a hall of mirrors, trapped in narcissistic self-reflection.  Rather, tracking four “users” of Shakespeare--author Jorge Luis Borges, actor Simon Callow, the sarcastic Tumblr users of “That’s Not Shakespeare,” and game developer Kitty Horrorshow--we will explore how their diverse accounts of Shakespeare’s inclusion in a web of “affective time” (Charnes 2006) enable potential for imaginative and theoretical work.

The truest currency of Shakespeareans at this moment is the flicker of insight that reconfigures a scene or poem, the redescription that scrambles our codes and promises something new. Whether we are scouring a database, reflecting on networks and agents, or offering a reading of formal or bibliographic features, our arguments are judged by how they reanimate and transform the texts they treat. Weird Shakespeare Tricks proposes to engage with the ways non-academic Shakespeare users produce and convey such insights. It is, we think, about time. 

//







 
The uses and users of Shakespeare offer three benefits to academic critics.  First, approaches—not “new,” perhaps, but novel—to thinking with and through these affective and intellectual commitments; Shakespeare has affordances of which scholarly users have not been aware, or have traditionally deemed too naïve for serious attention.  Second, by hypothesizing that academic and popular Shakespeares have more in common than usually believed, we aim to outline the principles of reanimation governing the generation of social capital for and by way of Shakespeare. Finally, popular association with Shakespeare promises a deeper understanding of our own contemporary methodological turn as academics who – whether we are scouring a database or tracing an Actor-Network – are becoming more openly invested in the possibilities and meanings of association.  The truest currency of Shakespeareans at this moment is the flicker of insight that reconfigures a scene or poem, the redescription that scrambles our codes and promises something new.  

Abstract Sketch: 

 
In an age that fetishizes the new -- the newest phone, the newest trend, the newest methodological turn -- what do we make of a Shakespeare whose importance seems to come in being old? Is he merely a concentrated form of social, cultural (and even financial) capital, invoked knowingly, to bring historical cachet into new discourses? (We might think, for instance, of the prominence of the Bard among early MOOCs, and, before them, televisual and radio lectures.)  If so, this new-old Shakespeare might have very little indeed to teach us about our own concerns as academic Shakespeareans.
 
Or rather, is he a site of cultural convening, not always relegated to historical record but always threatening to overstep of the bounds of an imagined pure historicity?  In the wake of the Jamesonian injunction to "always historicize," we find that our culture still teems with updated, adapted, or "ahistorical" Shakespeares, Shakespeares that do not deny their age but which foreground the Bard's supposed affective immediacy.  We argue, then, that Shakespeare might be productively understood as a social technology, a language or medium through which the concerns of the present can be expressed while still attempting to constellate those concerns in a web of historically situated events that render them meaningful.

If we conceive of Shakespeare as a social technology (a gadget?) that allows users to achieve certain ends, engage in certain behaviors, how might we come to see non-academic as well as academic "uses" of him and his texts moving into the future?
 
What are the uses and how are they useful for scholars?






Abstract Sketch:

Academic users of Shakespeare are prone to a type of either/or thinking, a clear demarcation between  “our” methodological moves and those of our culture. (Either here or below: two theoretical approaches to cultural Shakespeare—the naive and the capital). Weird Shakespeare Tricks argues rather for a continuity of both methods and desires between academic and popular Shakespeares. What other Shakespeare users have to teach us, Weird Shakespeare Tricks claims, is about our intellectual and affective commitments.
1.     We long for the real and find that desire naive. Fantasy and technology offer imperfect substitutes for desire.
2.     We analogize, animating Shakespeare with our present contradictions, even knowing that what we’re doing is seeing ourselves.
 
The trick to this recognition is to see it not as banishing academic or non-academic Shakespeare to a hall of mirrors, trapped in narcissistic self-reflection (though certainly those dangers persist) but to understand that this game of fort-da is intrinsic to building our relationships with the past. We, all of us, are in a continual process of inducting Shakespeare into a web of "affective time" (cf Charnes) that makes claims for Shakespeare Now even as that importance is established on the basis of historical difference.
 
As such, the uses and users of Shakespeare offer three benefits to academic critics. First, approaches—not “new,” perhaps, but novel—to thinking with and through these affective and intellectual commitments. Shakespeare has affordances of which scholarly users have not been aware. Second, (and this might be utopian bullshit), 
