<<<<<<< Updated upstream
BSJKLFNJDFGNLDFNLKBSFGNKL;SFGLK;FSGL;KFSDKL;FDKLBFKLSBHKL;GFNJFRGKLZASDF
=======
A Working Document for Shakespeare User essay

Abstract Sketch: 

 
In an age that fetishizes the new -- the newest phone, the newest trend, the newest methodological turn -- what do we make of a Shakespeare whose importance seems to come in being old? Is he merely a concentrated form of social, cultural (and even financial) capital, invoked knowingly, to bring historical cachet into new discourses? (We might think, for instance, of the prominence of the Bard among early MOOCs, and, before them, televisual and radio lectures.)  If so, this new-old Shakespeare might have very little indeed to teach us about our own concerns as academic Shakespeareans.
 



FART NOISE FART NOISE FART NOISE FART NOISE FART NOISE FART NOISE FART NOISE
Or rather, is he a site of cultural convening, not always relegated to historical record but always threatening to overstep of the bounds of an imagined pure historicity?  In the wake of the Jamesonian injunction to "always historicize," we find that our culture still teems with updated, adapted, or "ahistorical" Shakespeares, Shakespeares that do not deny their age but which foreground the Bard's supposed affective immediacy.  We argue, then, that Shakespeare might be productively understood as a social technology, a language or medium through which the concerns of the present can be expressed while still attempting to constellate those concerns in a web of historically situated events that render them meaningful.

If we conceive of Shakespeare as a social technology (a gadget?) that allows users to achieve certain ends, engage in certain behaviors, how might we come to see non-academic as well as academic "uses" of him and his texts moving into the future?
 
What are the uses and how are they useful for scholars?

THIS IS A TEST EDIT

AWESOME. WORKING?

>>>>>>> Stashed changes




Abstract Sketch:

Academic users of Shakespeare are prone to a type of either/or thinking, a clear demarcation between  “our” methodological moves and those of our culture. (Either here or below: two theoretical approaches to cultural Shakespeare—the naive and the capital). Weird Shakespeare Tricks argues rather for a continuity of both methods and desires between academic and popular Shakespeares. What other Shakespeare users have to teach us, Weird Shakespeare Tricks claims, is about our intellectual and affective commitments.
1.     We long for the real and find that desire naive. Fantasy and technology offer imperfect substitutes for desire.
2.     We analogize, animating Shakespeare with our present contradictions, even knowing that what we’re doing is seeing ourselves.
 
The trick to this recognition is to see it not as banishing academic or non-academic Shakespeare to a hall of mirrors, trapped in narcissistic self-reflection (though certainly those dangers persist) but to understand that this game of fort-da is intrinsic to building our relationships with the past. We, all of us, are in a continual process of inducting Shakespeare into a web of "affective time" (cf Charnes) that makes claims for Shakespeare Now even as that importance is established on the basis of historical difference.
 
As such, the uses and users of Shakespeare offer three benefits to academic critics. First, approaches—not “new,” perhaps, but novel—to thinking with and through these affective and intellectual commitments. Shakespeare has affordances of which scholarly users have not been aware. Second, (and this might be utopian bullshit), 

